Hello and welcome to this art tutorial.
So in the previous section this PCA feature extraction technique reduced the dimensionality of our problem
by extracting the variables that explained the most the variance.
And now in LDH this is quite different.
We are extracting some new independent variables that will separate the most the classes of the dependent
variable.
And therefore since this time it considers the classes of the dependent variable.
Well that means that it considers the dependent variable to proceed to this feature extraction technique
and therefore that makes LDA a supervised dimensionality reduction model.
All right so now let's apply LDA on our.
So first Very quickly let's add the rifle there as we can directory's.
We'll get to our mission in it is that pointer point nine dimensional reduction and we are now in the
section 44 linear discriminant analysis.
So let's go inside and that's to follow.
You want to set as working directory.
We're still working on the one that says the file.
So that's exactly the same business problem as the one we worked with when implementing PCA.
And so that will be a good opportunity to compare this dimensionality reduction technique LDA to the
previous one PCA.
Now let's not forget to click on this more button here and set as a working directory.
Perfect.
And so since we're working on the same business problem as before.
As for PCa well implementing LDA here is going to be very easy.
We will just take the PCA code take everything from here down to the bottom copy and we'll go back to
LGA and paste the whole thing here and inside of this code we will just need basically to replace this
applying PCA section by a new section dedicated to applying LDA.
So I'm going to remove all this section.
So let's remove this and let's replace here PCA by LDA and now it's time to implement LDA.
So the package that we're going to use to apply LDA is the mass package and a s s and it's actually
a package that is by default in your list of packages.
It's the package right here mass support functions and data sets for enables and replacements.
All right.
So as you can see this is not important.
So let's imported by using the library command.
Here we go and mass this way in parenthesis.
All right.
We can already select this to import the package.
And now let's implement LDA.
So the first thing that we have to do is ask for BCA create an LDA variable that will use to transform
our original dataset into this new data set composed of the Lynnie or discriminants.
And so we're going to call this variable LDA equals.
And now we're going to use the LDA function as simple as that.
And let's add some parenthesis.
And now let's see the arguments by pressing f one.
All right so the arguments are here.
The first argument is formula.
So that's exactly the formula of your dependent variable with respect to the independent variables.
So far the original ones.
So here as a first argument we will input.
Formula equals customer segment.
Remember that's the name of the dependent variable and filled up.
And we can add a dot dot where we we don't have to write all the names of the independent variables.
The dot is here for us.
So come up and then next argument and then the next argument is data.
And as for Pca the data here is going to be the training set.
So let's add here.
Training training set.
Here we go.
All right.
And actually that's all and that's for a specific reason a very important reason that is directly related
to LDA.
It's due to the fact that LDA is a supervised dimensionality reduction technique.
Remember supervised means that the LDA model takes into account the dependent variable and since it
takes into account the dependent variable.
Well it's quite intuitive to understand that the number of Lynnie or discriminants will be related to
the information of the depende viable and that information is actually the number of classes in the
dependent variable.
And there is this explicit correlation between the number of linear or discriminants and the information
of the dependent variable.
It's that there will be k minus one linear discriminants where k is the number of classes.
So here since we have three classes that means that we'll get at most three minus one equals two linear
or discriminants.
So here without specifying the number of linear discriminants equal to 2 we will get automatically to
linear or discriminants and therefore that's all.
We don't need to add any other arguments.
So the LDA object is ready to be used to transform our original dataset into this new one composed of
the discriminants.
We will get to our discriminants which is exactly what we want asked for PCa we want to do extracted
features and this time these two new extracted features will separate the most two classes.
So we should get very good results as well.
And then that's the same as for PCa.
We need to transform the training set and the test set so that we can then use them in the next sections
so we'll use the training set to fit SVM Well actually to the training set to build the classifier and
then we will make our predictions predicting the test results with this test set that will be transformed
as well and make the conclusion matrix and most importantly we will visualize the training set and the
test results something that we'll be able to do because we now have two features.
All right.
So let's do it.
Let's do the same to apply LDA on the training set and the test.
So first let's start with a training set training set.
So remember we're keeping them as a training set so that we don't have to change it in the rest of the
sections.
So trainset equals.
And then remember we need to use to predict function that's actually exactly the same as for PCa.
We will however need to add something to make it work.
And I will explain what it is but definitely we're doing this transformation with the pretty function.
So parenthesis now inside this pretty function we need to specify.
You know the first argument here which is the object.
So the object is LPA and then come up and then the second argument and the second argument is the dataset
on which we want to make the transformation that is extract the new features.
And that's the trainset.
Here it is.
So as a reminder this is the original dataset composed of 13 independent variables and this will be
the new training sets composed of the two extracted features that are the two Lindhardt discriminants.
All right.
So we can already do that to see if we get the right training set as we expect.
So before executing this line of course we need to execute the previous sections because we need to
import the data set and apply data preprocessing.
So let's do it.
We don't have anything to change here.
Everything is already well-prepared.
Thanks to what we did in the preview section with PCa.
So let's execute this.
Here we go.
Well executed.
And now let's apply LDH create the LDA object and then use this object to transform our original training
set into this new training set composed of the two Linnea our discriminants.
So we already imported the mass package.
So we just need to execute this line of code.
Let's do it.
Here we go.
LDA object well created.
Now we are ready to transform the training set.
But before we select this line and executed we need to add this one more thing that I just mentioned
which is a function that will apply to this whole product LDA training set here and that will set this
training set that will be transformed into a data frame because for PCa when we did this when we transform
here the train set to this new train set composed of the principal components.
Well we got a data frame but for LDA that's not the same.
We will get a matrix and we need a data frame because then you know we have the next code sections.
And inside these code sections the functions that we use expect a data frame for the trainset set here
for example it expects a data frame.
And so we absolutely need to convert this transform training set that will not be a data frame if we
execute it this way but a matrix.
And so to simply convert this into a data frame I think we already do that before we need to use the
function as Dot data dot frame and parenthesis and we close the parenthesis here and that will set this
transform training set as a data frame.
And now we are ready to execute this line of code to obtain our new training set composed of the extracted
features that are discriminants.
So let's do it let's like this line and execute.
And as you can see the training set is still a training set.
Otherwise it would be in values.
And when I click on it let's have a look at what we just created.
So first of all the first thing that we see is this first come here.
That is the dependent variable itself.
I know this is no longer called customer segments but it's actually the customer segment called them
that's exactly the same one for the same observations and the same labels 1 2 and 3 but the magically
it was called class by function.
So don't worry about that.
That's the dependent variable.
And then the next interesting thing we see are the two linear discriminants LG 1 and LG 2.
And as I told you that's the number of linier discriminants we get due to the fact that we have three
classes four that have been invaluable.
So that's what matters for us now.
And that's the variables that we'll use That's the new extracted features that we'll use to train the
SVM model to make predictions to make the computer matrix and eventually to visualize the results.
And then we have these other three variables in one procedure to improve to 3.
That is just variables derived from the LDA model equations.
So that's not very important here.
What matters is that we have our dependent variable class and our two new extracted features.
The Linnie are discriminants one and two.
And so now what we have to do is set our training set into the right format.
That is we want to train and set that is composed of first to two extracted features to two new independent
variables and then less position the dependent variable class.
There is nothing else than the customer segment.
So basically what we need to do here is the same as what we did for PCa that is play with the indexes
to not only set the right order for columns but also to not include the three columns here.
So you want to pursue three.
So what we'll do here to be efficient is take our PCA model and we will take this line here copy and
go back to LGA and page that here.
All right.
And now as for PCa we need to include three indexes this first and next year will be the index of L.D.
1.
So that is the Index of this column that is 1 2 3 4 and 5 that's index 5.
So let's add it here.
Replace 2 by 5.
Then the second index here should be the index of the second you extract that feature that is Elda 2.
So that is indexed 6.
This column has index 6.
So let's replace your 3 by 6.
All right.
And eventually this should be the index of the dependent variable and this index is of course one because
this is the first column here that hasn't x1.
So now when I execute this line here we go look at our new trading sets.
Well that is this time exactly what we want.
The first two columns are the new extracted features and the last column is have been invaluable.
Vector exactly as what is expected in the rest of the code sections.
So perfect.
Our trainset is well transformed and ready to be used to train the SBA model.
All right.
Now we need to do the same for the test set.
So that will be very quick and easy.
We will select these two hands here.
Copy paste and now we just need to replace training set by test set here here as well.
Here and eventually here also and now we can just ask you these two lines but let's take them one by
one.
This is the test set so far composed of 13 and they've been invaluable.
The original ones.
Then when we select this line and execute well we only get two new extracted features that we want to
know the two and three variables here of the equation.
And of course that happened in Bible class.
And then when we do this again to take the right index is in the correct order we execute this.
And now we get the test that composed of the two.
You extract the teachers in first positions Elodie one and the other two and the dependent variable
in last position.
So that's perfect.
Now we are ready to execute the rest of the sections to build our SVM model.
All right let's do it.
And actually we don't have much thing to change in this section do you think we need to change something.
Well the answer is yes because remember the dependent variable is no longer called customer segment.
Even if it is the customer saying one variable this time it has a different name which is class and
that's actually the only thing that we need to change because the training set still has the same name.
It's trainset that we're just friends from here.
So that's fine.
And then it's the same type and the same kernel because we're building a linear or as a VM model.
All right so perfect let's execute this section let's do it.
Done model created and now we are ready to predict the test results.
So the test results do we need to change something here.
Well this time the answer is no because we have our test transforms.
It has the same name and the classifier as this one.
So everything is perfect.
We are ready to execute this line of code perfect.
And same for here.
We don't need to change anything.
We can just make the confusion matrix by executing this line.
Here we go.
Confusion matrix created.
Let's see if we also get 100 percent accuracy.
We will be able to see that in a flashlight because if there is one incorrect prediction Well that means
that we will not get 100 percent accuracy as we obtained with PCa.
So that means that it will not be as perfect as PCA.
So let's do it let's type C.M. here and press enter.
And unfortunately we get one incorrect prediction here.
But that's not such a big deal because not only one incorrect prediction is still excellent but also
remember when we visualize the trends that result with PCa.
Well we had incorrect predictions.
So we were just a little lucky to get zero incorrect predictions with this year.
So right.
So that still excellent results.
And now let's visualize the trends that results.
Now do we need to change something in this section.
Well try to figure out if yes we do because it's important to understand this in case you use this section
here to visualize the results on your problem on your dataset.
Well the answer is this time yes because this line of code here call names expects to have the real
name of your independent variables.
The new extracted features L.D. you want an alt..
So here we need to replace PC one and be sure to buy respectively X that L.D. one because that's the
name of the first extracted feature the first new independent variable and X that L.D. to the second
you extract it.
The second independent variable.
So let's replace them one by X and and one and decide to buy X that L.D. 2.
So that's very important and that's the only thing that you want to change the call names you must have
the real names of your independent variables.
When you visualize the results and then you will need to change something else.
Well this we can also change but it's not compulsory that's just for the labels of the x axis and the
y axis.
So let's do it anyway.
And this some we don't need to specify the real name of the independent variable.
We can just replace one by.
Else you want to specify that it's the linear discriminant and not the principal component.
And same here.
We can replace two by L.D. two.
All right.
And now it's done.
Now this code is ready to be executed.
So let's make the quick same changes for the visualization of the test results.
So let's replace one here by x that will do one then pc 2 by X LG 2 and replace one by one and PC two
by the two.
And now everything is ready we don't need to change anything more.
We can grab a cup of coffee and visualize the training that results and the test results.
So let's do it.
Let's hope that everything is OK.
So I'm going to select all the section up to here.
So that's to visualize trining results let's do it.
And here we go.
All right.
So it's executing it's always taking a little time but we will get there we can already click on plot's
horizon it can be stations are being made almost done and here are the results beautiful results.
The three classes were almost well separated perfectly well separated.
We can see the incorrect prediction but be careful that's not the same incorrect prediction we saw with
the confusing Matrix because that concerns the test set.
Here it's the training said so we also have one incorrect prediction on the trend set.
That's this one but that's almost perfect.
Which is quite intuitive to understand because as you remember LDH tries to separate the most classes
of your dependent variable so that's why here we can see that the prediction boundary is kind of equidistant
to the majority of the green points here and the majority of the points here.
So that's perfect.
Each wine is in its correct segment of customers and therefore this wine business owner can feel pretty
confident at predicting for each new wine to which customer segments he should recommend it and not
only he can be pretty confident that recommending the new wines to the right customers but also thanks
to the feature extraction technique that allows him to visualize its results in two dimensions.
Thanks.
Number two new independent variables in the discriminants.
Well now this wine business owner can make a clear plot of its different segment of customers and putting
in each segment of customers the different ones so eventually that can be pretty convenient.
Okay so perfect.
We managed to build a great LDA model so we'll finish on this good note and therefore we will move on
to the next section of this course which is going to be another feature extraction technique.
But this time adapted for non-linear problems.
So since this problem is obviously a linear problem because we manage to apply very successfully Lynnie
our models SPCA and LDK Well it won't be relevant to apply and in the future extraction model on this
dataset.
So we will work on another dataset.
There is of course going to be nonlinear and this next new feature extraction technique that we're going
to see is going to be kernel PCA.
So I look forward to starting this in the next section.
And until then enjoyer machine learning.